{
  "storyLine":[
"The long relay race to π — how π evolved over 2000+ years through Aryabhata, Madhava, and Newton.",
"The Kerala mathematicians who discovered infinite series centuries before Newton.",
"Newton’s use of calculus to effortlessly compute π while solving gravity.",
"Fourier’s claim that ‘ugly’ functions can be built from pure sine waves.",
"How a heated-metal experiment led to MRI machines, MP3s, and JPEG compression.",
"Ramanujan’s intuitive formulas that changed number theory despite no formal education.",
"Hardy’s realization of Ramanujan’s genius upon reading his letter.",
"The Lost Notebook — a mystery mathematicians are still decoding today.",
"How surveyors measured Everest’s height using angles and shadows without climbing it.",
"The parallax method that measures stars trillions of kilometers away using Earth’s orbit.",
"Differential calculus explained to a 10-year-old: “How fast is your shadow moving?” A childlike story where changing shadows becomes the gateway to derivatives.",
],
"topic": "Mathematics",
"customPrompt": ""
}

[
"Integral calculus explained to a child using chocolate bars and broken Lego blocks. How tiny pieces add up to something meaningful.",
"How calculus quietly powers Google Maps, Spotify, aircraft wings, and stock predictions. “Everything smooth around you? That’s calculus working behind the scenes.”",
"The invention of 0 — the symbol so dangerous ancient Greeks refused to fully accept it. How the concept of nothing changed everything: trade, astronomy, computing, and algebra.",
"When 0 travelled from India → Arabia → Europe and transformed world mathematics. The cultural journey of zero like a migrating idea that reshaped civilizations.",
"How imaginary numbers became real — the moment engineers used them to control electricity. The turning point where “nonsense numbers” powered the entire electrical grid.",
"Why Maxwell’s equations only make sense if imaginary numbers exist. The physics link that made mathematicians stop laughing at √–1.",
"The global hunt for the largest prime number — thousands of computers racing together. How volunteers worldwide donate computing power to discover primes as big as novels.",
"When a high school teacher’s laptop accidentally discovered a record-breaking prime. A quirky story from the GIMPS project.",
"Why prime numbers are the “atoms” of mathematics. The story of how every number breaks down into primes, just like matter into atoms.",
"The RSA encryption story — how prime numbers guard your WhatsApp messages. How our digital world stands on the shoulders of extremely large primes.",
]
[
"The “shuffle problem” — how probability hides inside a deck of cards. Demonstrating randomness through shuffling stories from casinos and research labs.",
"The birthday paradox — why 23 people can create a 50% chance of matching birthdays. A counter-intuitive probability tale that always surprises readers.",
"The Monty Hall problem — and why even PhDs got it wrong. A human drama of cognitive bias + probability explained through a game show.",
"How dust storms on Mars helped demonstrate Gaussian distribution. A real example of noise, randomness, and natural variation forming a perfect bell curve.",
"The Central Limit Theorem: why everything in the world eventually becomes “normal.” A story told through exam scores, factory defects, and average human height.",
"How Gauss predicted the orbit of a lost asteroid using a single distribution curve. A dramatic rescue mission for a runaway celestial rock using pure math.",
"How a measurement error in the 1700s created a perfect case study of Gaussian noise. The world’s first real dataset that fit a bell curve almost magically.",
"Why normal distribution explains why extreme talent and extreme failure are rare. Sports, music, stock markets — the mathematics of “averaging out.”",
"When a statistician proved that “perfect fairness” is impossible. A philosophical story on randomness, bias, and why truly random coins don’t exist."
]
